.\" @(#)24to8.1 23.3 90/05/07;
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc
.TH 24to8 1 "10 March 1992"
.IX "*" "" "\f324to8\f1(1) \(em converts Sun rasterfiles to 8-bit format" ""
.IX "color" "converting" "color" "converting Sun rasterfiles to 8-bit format \(em \f324to8\f1(1)"
.SH NAME
24to8 \- convert a 24- or 32-bit rasterfile to an 8 bit
rasterfile suitable for X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 7
.B 24to8
[
.B \-v
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-large
] [
.I inrasf
|
\-
] [
.I outrasf
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 24to8
takes as input a 24- or 32-bit Sun
rasterfile
and reduces the depth of the
image, from truecolor to 8 bit colormapped index color.
.B 24to8
uses Floyd/Steinberg dithering to achieve high quality images.  By default, 
this filter assumes that the color cube in the static colormap is of the form 
5x5x5 (5 reds, 5 greens, and 5 blues).
.sp
If both filenames are missing, the source rasterfile is read from stdin
and the output rasterfile is written to stdout.  If there is only one
filename, then it is interpreted as the input rasterfile.  To have a
named output rasterfile and still read the input rasterfile from stdin,
use a dash (-) in place of the input filename. 
.sp
.B 24to8 
interprets the input rasterfile as a packed 24-bit BGR format or an
unpacked 32-bit XBGR-format; the standard Sun
ordering for the red, green, and blue channels.  This is the opposite
of older versions of this program, which used the RGB or XBGR
format.  Older image files with the RGB format should be passed 
through the 
.BR redxblue (1)
filter prior to dithering with
.BR 24to8 .
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-v
Verbose mode will print information as it processes the image.  (The
default is to be silent.)
.TP 5
.B \-q
Query (prints list of options)
.TP 5
.B \-large
Dithers into a static colormap with a large color cube of the
form 5x9x5.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR redxblue (1)
