.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH dsdm 1 "23 Nov 1992"
.IX "dsdm" "" "\f3dsdm\f1(1) \(em drop site database manager" ""
.SH NAME
dsdm \- Drop Site Database Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B dsdm
[
.B \-x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dsdm
manages a database of all drop sites on the screen.  When a drag-and-drop
operation is started, the
.B dsdm
is queried for a list of the drop sites.  This drop site information is used
by the dragging application to provide user feedback during the drag
operation.
.LP
The
.B dsdm
is not used during normal operation of the system.  Drop site database
management is normally provided by the
.BR olwm (1)
window manager.  If you are running a window manager other than
.B olwm,
you must run
.B dsdm
in order for proper feedback to appear during drag-and-drop operations.
The
.B dsdm
is normally started from the
.B openwin-sys
file.
.LP
There should be only one
.B dsdm
running at a time.  The
.B dsdm
will refuse to run if there is another
.B dsdm
running, or if
.B olwm
is running and is managing the drop site database.
This mutual exclusion is accomplished through ownership of an X
selection called \s-1_SUN_DRAGDROP_DSDM\s0.  If 
.B dsdm
loses ownership of this selection, it will exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-x
Sets the owner of the \s-1_SUN_DRAGDROP_DSDM\s0 to
.B None.
If another instance of the
.B dsdm
is running, it will exit.  If
.B olwm
is running and is maintaining the drop site database, it will stop
maintaining the database.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\fBanother DSDM is already running\fP
Another client has ownership of the \s-1_SUN_DRAGDROP_DSDM\s0 selection.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR olwm (1)
