.\" @(#)owplaces.1 1.1 91/02/22
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH owplaces 1 "7 January 1991"
.IX "owplaces" "" "\f3owplaces\f1(1) \(em X client listing utility" ""
.IX "OpenWindows" "client" "OpenWindows" "client listing utility \(em \f3owplaces\f1(1)"
.SH NAME
owplaces \- list client applications running on a display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B owplaces
[
.B \-display
.I displaystring
] [
.B \-timeout
.I nseconds
] 
.br
	[
.B \-single
|
.B \-multi
|
.B \-pointer
]
.br
	[
.B \-all
|
.B \-local
|
.B \-remote
|
.B \-host
.I hostname
] 
.br
	[
.B \-script
] [
.B \-output
.I filename
] [
.B \-ampersand
] [
.B \-tw
]
.br
	[
.B \-silent
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B owplaces
is a tool to list the command lines for the selected clients.
The output is geared towards use in a startup script such
as 
.B $HOME/.openwin-init
.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The basic options are as follows:
.TP 15
.BI "\-display " string
Specify the name of the display to manage.  Overrides the 
.SB DISPLAY
environment variable, if any.
.TP
.BI "\-timeout " nsecs
Specifies the time to wait for a reply for those clients that
are updating their command lines.  Default is 30 seconds.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH MODE OPTIONS
.LP
Options that control which clients are printed:
.TP 15
.BI "\-single"
Search only the default screen of the specified display for clients.
.TP
.BI "\-multi"
Search all screens of the specified display for clients.
This is the default.
.TP
.BI "\-pointer"
Print only the client selected by clicking the mouse in the
desired window.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH CLIENT MACHINE FILTER OPTIONS
.LP
Options to filter clients based on host machine
(as specified by the WM_CLIENT_MACHINE property):
.TP 15
.BI "\-all"
Print clients on all hosts.  This is the default.
.TP
.BI "\-local"
Print clients local to this machine only.
.TP
.BI "\-remote"
Print clients that are remote to this machine.
.TP
.BI "\-host " hostname
Print clients from 
.I hostname 
only.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH INITIALIZATION SCRIPT OPTIONS
.LP
Options useful to producing shell scripts:
.TP 15
.BI "\-script"
Instead of printing command lines, output will be a Bourne shell
script suitable for use as an initialization file.  The script
can handle multiple screens if
.B \-multi
is also specified.
.TP
.BI "\-output " filename
Directs output to
.I filename
instead of stdout.  
If
.I filename
exists, it is renamed as
.I filename\fB.BAK\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-ampersand"
Appends an ampersand character (&) to end of each command line.
This is implied if
.B \-script
is used.
.TP
.BI "\-tw"
Prepends the command 
.BR toolwait (1) 
to each client.  The
.B \-ampersand
option has no affect if this option is specified.
.TP
.BI "\-silent"
Suppress error messages.
.\" ========================================================================
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To create a 
.B $HOME/.openwin-init 
startup script just as
.BR olwm (1)
does for "Save Workspace":
.RS
.ft B
.sp .5
.nf
example% owplaces -multi -script -output $HOME/.openwin-init
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.\" ========================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR olwm (1),
.BR xlsclients (1),
.BR toolwait (1)
