.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.TH props 1 "23 February 1994"
.IX "props" "" "\f3props\f1(1) \(em OpenWindows property setting utility" ""
.IX "OpenWindows" "property" "OpenWindows" "property setting utility \(em \f3props\f1(1)"
.IX "window" "changing" "windows" "changing fonts or colors \(em \f3props\f1(1)"
.SH NAME
props \- graphical interface to set OpenWindows properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B props
[ -toolkitoption ... ] [ -init ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B props
program provides a graphical interface to many properties of OpenWindows which
are controlled via X resources. The resources
.B props
manipulates are stored in the file called \f3.OWdefaults\f1 in the user's home
directory. This enables
.B props
to ensure properties persist across window sessions.
.LP
Upon window system startup, the \f3.OWdefaults\f1 file is merged into the X resource
manager as specified in the \fIopenwin-sys\f1 file. This occurs after 
.BR xinit (1) 
loads \f3$OPENWINHOME/lib/Xdefaults\f1 or \f3.Xdefaults\f1 in the user's 
home directory if it
exists. Thus, the settings in \f3.OWdefaults\f1 take precidence over the settings
in a user's \f3.Xdefaults\f1 file which in turn take precidence over the system
defaults set in \f3$OPENWINHOME/lib/Xdefaults\f1. When properties are changed via
\f3 props\f1,
.B props
updates \f3.OWdefaults\f1 and the X resource manager.
.LP
The resources handled by
.B props
consist of two resource components. The first component is \f3OpenWindows\f1.
The second resource component is the name of the particular property being set.
For example, the mouse acceleration is controlled by the resource
\f3OpenWindows.MouseAcceleration\f1. The OpenWindows toolkits and window manager
are designed to respond to the resources manipulated by
.B props.
Systems without the OpenWindows toolkits and window manager are not likely
to be aware of the OpenWindows resources. Thus, if
.B props
is used in a non-OpenWindows environment, the system will probably
ignore the settings made via
.B props.
.LP
Below is an explaination of the resources handled by
.B props.
The second component of each resource name is listed. For example, the name
"WorkspaceColor" refers to the complete resource name
\f3OpenWindows.WorkspaceColor\f1.
.TP
.BI BasicLocale " (locale name) "
Specifies the basic locale in which the system is running. Permissible locale
names are "C" (USA), "ja" (Japan), "ko" (Korea), "zh" (PRC), "zh_TW" (ROC),
"de" (Germany), "it" (Italy), "fr" (France), and "sv" (Sweden).
.nf
.B Default value: C
.B Properties category: Locale
.B Category control: Basic Locale
.fi
The default specifies the U.S. locale and the English language.
.TP
.BI Beep " (enumeration) "
Specifies the circumstances under which
.BR olwm (1)
should beep.  Permissible values are the strings "always", "never", and
"notices".  The string "never" means that
.B olwm
should never beep, "notices" means that
.B olwm
should beep only when a notice appears, and "always" means that
.B olwm
will beep whenever it is appropriate.
.nf
.B Default value: always
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control: Beep
.fi
.TP
.BI BeepDuration " (integer) "
Specifies how long the keyboard beep should last in milliseconds.
.nf
.B Default value: 100
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control: Beep Duration
.fi
.TP
.BI BoldFont " (font name) "
Specifies the default bold font used for captions and window titles.
.nf
.B Default value: -*-lucida sans-bold-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*
.B Properties category: Fonts
.B Category control: Typeface
.fi
The default specifies a bold weight, 12-point, regular Lucida Sans font.
.TP
.BI DataBackground " (color) "
Specifies the color for the background of text windows such as those in
mailtool, textedit, and the help window.
.nf
.B Default value: #ffffff
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: DATA AREAS Background
.fi
The default value specifies white.
.TP
.BI DataForeground " (color) "
Specifies the color for the text in text windows such as those in mailtool,
textedit, and the help window.
.nf
.B Default value: #000000
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: DATA AREAS Foreground
.fi
The default value specifies black.
.TP
.BI DisplayLang " (locale name) "
Specifies the locale for the language used when displaying text.
See the description of the 
.B BasicLocale
resource for a list of permissible locale names.
.nf
.B Default value: C
.B Properties category: Locale
.B Category control: Display Locale
.fi
The default specifies the U.S. locale and the English language.
.TP
.BI DragRightDistance " (integer) "
The number of pixels you must drag the mouse to the right in a menu item to
bring up a sub-menu.  The sub-menu always comes up when you move over the menu
mark (the right-pointing triangle), regardless of the drag-right distance.
.nf
.B Default value: 100
.B Properties category: Menus
.B Category control: Drag-Right Distance
.fi
.TP
.BI IconLocation " (enumeration) "
One of the words "top-lr", "top-rl", "bottom-lr", "bottom-rl", "left-tb",
"left-bt", "right-tb", or "right-bt".  These specify that icons should be
arranged along a particular edge of the screen, ordered from left to right
or top to bottom as appropriate.  The words "top", "bottom", "left", and
"right" are synonyms for "top-lr", "bottom-lr", "left-tb", and "right-tb",
respectively. These synonyms are used by
.B props.
.nf
.B Default value: bottom
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control: Icon Location
.fi
.TP
.BI InputLang " (locale name) "
Specifies the language expected to be typed from the keyboard.
See the description of the
.B BasicLocale
resource for a list of permissible locale names.
.nf
.B Default value: C
.B Properties category: Locale
.B Category control: Input Locale
.fi
The default specifies the U.S. locale and the English language.
.TP
.BI KeyboardCommands " (enumeration) "
Permissible values for this resource are "Basic" and "Full".  In
.B Full
mode, all OPEN LOOK Mouseless commands implemented by the window manager are
active.  See the section on Key Binding in the
.BR olwm (1)
man page for further information.  In
.B Basic
mode, the keys active are Open, Front, Help, and the colormap keys.
.nf
.B Default value: Basic
.B Properties category: Keyboard
.B Category control: Keyboard Mouse Equivalents
.fi
.TP
.BI KeyClick " (boolean) "
Specifies whether keys click when pressed.
.nf
.B Default value: false
.B Properties category: Keyboard
.B Category control: Other Options, Key Click
.fi
.TP
.BI KeyRepeat " (boolean) "
Specifies whether repeating keys repeat when held down.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Keyboard
.B Category control: Other Options, Key Repeat
.fi
.TP
.BI MenuAccelerators " (boolean) "
Specifies whether menu accelerators are enabled for menus in applications.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Keyboard
.B Category control: Keyboard Menu Equivalents
.fi
.TP
.BI MonospaceFont " (font name) "
Specifies the default monospace font used for text editors and other
applications which require a monospace font.
.nf
.B Default value: -*-lucida sans typewriter-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*
.B Properties category: Fonts
.B Category control: Typeface
.fi
The default specifies a medium weight, 12-point, regular Lucida Sans Typewriter font.
.TP
.BI MouseAcceleration " (integer) "
Specifies a multiplier. The mouse pointer will go this many times faster when
it moves more than the number of pixels specified by the
.B MouseThreshold
resource in a short time.
.nf
.B Default value: 2
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Mouse Acceleration
.fi
.TP
.BI MouseThreshold " (integer) "
Specifies the number of pixels which the mouse must move in a short time for
the mouse acceleration to be applied.
.nf
.B Default value: 15
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Mouse Threshold
.fi
.TP
.BI MultiClickTimeout " (integer) "
The time, in tenths of a second, that differentiates a double-click
from two single clicks.
.nf
.B Default value: 5
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Multi-Click Interval
.fi
.TP
.BI NumericFormat
Specifies how commas and periods are used in numbers.
See the description of the
.B BasicLocale
resource for a list of permissible locale names.
.nf
.B Default value: C
.B Properties category: Locale
.B Category control: Numeric Format
.fi
The default specifies the U.S. locale, a numeric format where commas are used to 
indicate thousands and a period is used to indicate where the fractional
part of the number begins. For example, one thousand and a half is "1,000.5".
.TP
.BI PointerMapping " (enumeration) "
Specifies a "left" or "right" handed mapping of the mouse buttons. For a
3-button mouse, "right" means button 1 is SELECT, button 2 is ADJUST, and
button 3 is MENU. A value of "left" means button 1 is MENU, button2 is 
ADJUST, and button 3 is SELECT. For mice with more or less than 3 buttons,
the sense of the buttons is reversed as for the 3-button mouse.
.nf
.B Default value: right
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Mouse Button Order
.fi
.TP
.BI PopupJumpCursor " (boolean) "
Specifies whether to warp the cursor to popup windows.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Pointer Jumping, Pop-Up Windows
.fi
.TP
.BI RegularFont " (font name) "
Specifies the default font used by the system in general. This font is used
for such text as that in buttons and non-bold labels.
.nf
.B Default value: -*-lucida sans-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*
.B Properties category: Fonts
.B Category control: Typeface
.fi
The default specifies a medium weight, 12-point, regular Lucida Sans font.
.TP
.BI Scale " (enumeration) "
Specifies the desktop scale. The scale value indicates the point size of the
OPEN LOOK Glyph font and the text fonts used by OpenWindows. Permissible values
are "small", "medium", "large", and "extra_large". These correspond to 10, 12,
14, and 19 point fonts, respectively.
.nf
.B Default value: medium
.B Properties category: Fonts
.B Category control: Scale
.fi
The default value specifies 12 point fonts.
.TP
.BI ScreenSaver.IdleTime " (integer) "
Specifies the number of minutes of idle time required before the screen saver
comes on. The
.B ScreenSaver.OnOff
resource must be set to "auto" for the screensaver to activate.
.I
Default value: 10.
.TP
.BI ScreenSaver.OnOff " (enumeration) "
Specifies whether the screensaver is off or come on automatically. The 
permissible values are "off" and "auto", respectively.
.nf
.B Default value: off
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control: Screen Saver
.fi
.TP
.BI ScrollbarJumpCursor " (boolean) "
Specifies whether to warp the cursor to follow the scrollbar elevator.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Mouse
.B Category control: Pointer Jumping, Scrollbars
.fi
.TP
.BI ScrollbarPlacement " (enumeration) "
Specifies on which side of windows to place verticle scrollbars. Permissible
values are "left" and "right".
.nf
.B Default value: right
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control Scrollbar Placement
.fi
.TP
.BI SelectDisplaysMenu " (boolean) "
If true, pressing the SELECT mouse button will bring up a menu item's
sub-menu (if any) instead of executing the sub-menu's default action.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Menus
.B Category control: Left Mouse Press
.fi
.TP
.BI SetInput " (enumeration) "
This controls the input focus mode.  If the value is "select", it
means click-to-focus.  If the value is "followmouse", it means
focus-follows-mouse.
.nf
.B Default value: select
.B Properties category: Miscellaneous
.B Category control: Set Active Window
.fi
.TP
.BI TimeFormat
Specifies the locale for the date and time format. Date format is mm/dd/yy
or dd/mm/yy and the time format is 12- or 24-hour clock.
See the description of the
.B BasicLocale
resource for a list of permissible locale names.
.nf
.B Default value: C
.B Properties category: Locale
.B Category control: Time Format
.fi
The default specifies the U.S. locale which has date format mm/dd/yy and 12-hour
clock time format.
.TP
.BI WindowColor " (color) "
Specifies the color of windows.  This is the "BG1" color for 3D OPEN LOOK.
It is used for the backgrounds of windows, menus, and notices.  The 3D
effect is achieved by using highlight and shadow colors derived from this
color.
.nf
.B Default value: #cccccc
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: WINDOWS Background
.fi
The default specifies a 20% gray value.
.TP
.BI WindowForeground " (color) "
Specifies the color for foreground components of windows such as captions and
text in buttons and footers.
.nf
.B Default value: #000000
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: WINDOWS Foreground
.fi
The default value specifies black.
.TP
.BI WindowMenuAccelerators " (boolean) "
Specifies whether menu accelerators are enabled for window menus.
.nf
.B Default value: true
.B Properties category: Keyboard
.B Category control: Keyboard Menu Equivalents
.fi
.TP
.BI WorkspaceBitmapBg " (color) "
Specifies the color for the background of the workspace bitmap which 
.B olwm
tiles on the root window if the 
.B WorkspaceStyle
resource is set to "tilebitmap".
.nf
.B Default value: #ffffff
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: DATA AREAS Background
.fi
The default value specifies white.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceBitmapFg " (color) "
Specifies the color for the foreground of the workspace bitmap which 
.B olwm
tiles on the root window if the 
.B WorkspaceStyle
resource is set to "tilebitmap".
.nf
.B Default value: #000000
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: DATA AREAS Foreground
.fi
The default value specifies black.
.TP 
.BI WorkspaceColor " (color) "
Specifies the color for the workspace (root window).  On startup,
.B olwm
will set the root window's background color to the color specified by this
resource if the
.B WorkspaceStyle
resource is set to "paintcolor", and it will restore the default background
on shutdown.
.nf
.B Default value: #40a0c0
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: WORKSPACE Background
.fi
The default value specifies a light blue color.
.TP
.BI WorkspaceStyle " (enumeration) "
Specifies how
.B olwm
decorates the workspace (root window).
Permissible values are "paintcolor" and "tilebitmap". If the value is
"paintcolor",
.B olwm
paints the workspace with the color indicated by the
.B WorkspaceColor
resource. If the value is "tilebitmap",
.B olwm
tiles the bitmap indicated by the
.B WorkspaceBitmapFile
resource using the colors specified by the
.B WorkspaceBitmapFg
and
.B WorkspaceBitmapBg
resources.
.nf
.B Default value: paintcolor
.B Properties category: Color
.B Category control: Pattern
.fi
The default specifies to use the color selected by WorkspaceColor.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP 
The
.B props
program accepts all standard command line options accepted by the OLIT toolkit.
In addition, it accepts the following.
.TP
.B \-init
This is the way
.B props
is started by
.B xinit
upon window system initialization. This is done to ensure the state of the
following window server attributes are set in accordance with the resources
in the \f3.OWdefaults\f1 file in the user's home directory: key click, key repeat,
beep duration, screen saver activation and timeout. When
.B props
is started with this option, it checks and resets the server state for these
settings if necessary and exits. This option is only meant to be used upon
system startup.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B $HOME/.OWdefaults
Contains the resource name-value pairs written by the
.B props
program.
.PD
.TP 20
.B $HOME/.openwin-menu-programs
Contains the user's custom programs menu.
.PD
.TP 20
.B $HOME/.openwin-menu-programs.BAK
Contains a backup version of \f3$HOME/.openwin-menu-programs\f1.
.PD
.TP 20
.B $HOME/.Xdefaults
Contains the user's resource name-value pairs as set outside of
.B props.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr /openwin/lib/Xdefaults
Contains the system's default resource name-value pairs.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr/openwin/lib/app-defaults/Props
Contains strings and layout information for
.B props.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr openwin/lib/help/props.info
Contains help text for
.B props.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr openwin/lib/openwin-sys
Starts
.B props
in initialization mode upon window system startup.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr openwin/bin/props
The executable
.B props
program.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr openwin/etc/workspace/patterns/*.xbm
Workspace bitmap files.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /usr openwin/etc/workspace/patterns/attributes
Workspace bitmap colors.
.PD
.TP 20
.B /tmp/OWtemp
Temporary resource storage file.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR olwm (1)
.BR xinit (1)
.BR xmodmap (1)
.BR xrdb (1)
.BR xset (1)
.BR xview (7)
