.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH textedit_filters 1 "23 January 1992"
.SH NAME
textedit_filters, align_equals, capitalize, insert_brackets, remove_brackets, shift_lines \- filters provided with textedit(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B align_equals
.LP
.B capitalize
.RB [ " \-u"
.RB | " \-l"
.RB | " \-c" " ]"
.LP
.BI insert_brackets " l  r "
.LP
.BI remove_brackets " l r "
.LP
.BI shift_lines
[
.B \-t
]
.I n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "textedit_filters" "" "\f3textedit_filters\f1(1) \(em text processing filters" ""
.IX "text" "filters" "text" "filters for text processing \(em \f3textedit_filters\f1(1)"
.IX align_equals "" "\f3align_equals\f1 \(em \f3textedit\f1 selection filter"
.IX capitalize "" "\f3capitalize\f1 \(em \f3textedit\f1 selection filter"
.IX insert_brackets "" "\f3insert_brackets\f1 \(em \f3textedit\f1 selection filter"
.IX remove_brackets "" "\f3remove_brackets\f1 \(em \f3textedit\f1 selection filter"
.IX shift_lines "" "\f3shift_lines\f1 \(em \f3textedit\f1 selection filter"
.LP
Each of these filters is designed to operate on pending delete selections in
text subwindows.
You can use them from within text subwindows either by
mapping them to function keys in your
.B .textswrc
file or adding them to the text `Extras' menu in your
.B .text_extras_menu
file.
When a filter is used as a command (perhaps in a pipeline),
it is applied to the standard input and the filtered text appears
on standard output.
.LP
.B align_equals
lines up the
.RB ` = '
(equal signs) in C
assignment statements.
Some programmers feel that this makes for improved readability.
It aligns all equal signs with the rightmost equal sign in the
selection (or the standard input), by padding with spaces between
the sign and the previous nonwhite character; it replaces
the selection with the aligned text (or writes this text to the
standard output).
For instance:
.RS
.nf
.cs B 20
big_long_expression = x;
shorter_expr = y;
z += 1;
.fi
.cs B
.ft R
.RE
becomes:
.RS
.nf
.cs B 20
big_long_expression = x;
shorter_expr        = y;
z                  += 1;
.fi
.cs B
.ft R
.RE
.LP
.B capitalize
changes the capitalization of the selection (or the standard input)
and replaces it (or writes to the standard output).
The
.B \-l
option converts all characters to lower case;
.B \-c
converts the first letter of each word to upper case;
and
.B \-u
converts all characters to upper case.
If no option is specified, then
.B capitalize
consults its input to determine what to do.
If the text is all capitals, it is converted to all lower case.
If the text is all lower case or of mixed cases and contains no white
space (such as a
.SM NEWLINE\s0,
.SM SPACE\s0,
or
.SM TAB\*S),
it is converted to all capitals.  If there is white space,
then the case of the first character in each word is inverted.
.LP
.B insert_brackets
surrounds the selection (or the standard input)
with the specified character sequences.
.I l
and
.I r
are the left- and right-bracketing characters, respectively.
.LP
.B remove_brackets
removes the left- and right-bracketing characters,
specified by
.I l
and
.IR r ,
respectively from the selection (or the standard input).
.LP
.B shift_lines
adjusts indentation of the selection (or the standard input) by
.I n
spaces, and replaces the selection with the adjusted text (or
writes to the standard output).
.B shift_lines
adjusts to the left when
.I n
is negative.
If
.B \-t
is specified, the lines are shifted left or right by
.I n
tab stops.
The default is 8 spaces per tab stop,
but if the first line of the selection (or the standard input)
begins with white space,
then the tab stops are set to four spaces.
.br
.ne 7
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.BI /tmp/Cap. pid
temporary file used by
.B capitalize
.TP
.BI /tmp/Ins. pid
temporary file used by
.B insert_brackets
.TP
.B $OPENWINHOME/lib/locale/<locale>/xview/.text_extras_menu
default `Extras' menu
.TP
.B $OPENWINHOME/share/src/xview/examples/textsw/textswrc
sample function-key mappings
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR textedit (1)
