.\" @(#)toolwait.1 1.1 91/07/15
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH toolwait 1 "30 March 1994"
.IX "toolwait" "" "\f3toolwait\f1(1) \(em X client startup utility" ""
.SH NAME
toolwait \- control client program startup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B toolwait
[
.BI \-display " displaystring"
] [
.B \-timeout " nseconds"
] [
.B \-help
]
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B toolwait
is a program that controls the startup of an X11 client program.
.B toolwait
takes a client program as its argument.  When the client program has started,
.B toolwait
will exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The basic options are as follows:
.TP 15
.BI "\-display " string
Specify the name of the display that
.B toolwait
should monitor.  Overrides the DISPLAY
environment variable, if any.
.TP
.BI \-timeout " nsecs"
Specifies the time to wait for the client to start up.  Toolwait will exit if
the client hasn't started by nsecs seconds.  Default is 15 seconds.
.TP
.B \-help
Display a short summary of the possible command line options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To start a cmdtool with
.BR toolwait ,
the following command may be used:
.RS
.ft B
.sp .5
.nf
example% toolwait cmdtool -Wp 0 0 -Ws 557 95 -WP 263 833
.fi
.ft R
.RE

To start a mailtool on display "host2" with a timeout of 25 seconds, use
the following command:
.RS
.ft B
.sp .5
.nf
example% toolwait -display host2:0 -timeout 25 mailtool 
-display host2:0
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Exit status is 0 for clean exits, the exit status of the child if the child has
problems, and 1 if toolwait has problems.
.SH NOTES
.LP
In the current version of
.BR toolwait ,
a client is considered
"started" when it has mapped a top level window on the display.  
As soon as
.B toolwait
detects that a top level window has been mapped, 
it will exit.
