.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.TH vkbd 1 "24 March 1992"
.IX "vkbd" "" "\f3vkbd\f1(1) \(em virtual keys & functions displayer" ""
.IX "keyboard" "virtual" "keyboard" "virtual keys & function displayer \(em \f3vkbd\f1(1)"
.SH NAME
vkbd 
\- virtual keyboard/soft function keys display manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vkbd
[
.B -nopopup
] [ 
.I generic-tool-arguments 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vkbd
provides functionality to label the function keys specific to the
individual application.
When the "Function Keys" item is selected
from the Workspace Utilities submenu, a panel containing the same
number of function keys as your keyboard is displayed at the bottom of
the screen.
You can also use the keys in the Function Keys panel
to activate the functions (assuming you have the Workspace property
"Set Input Area" set to "Click SELECT"): just click SELECT on a key.
The labels are automatically updated if you change the
input area to another window.
If the input area is changed to a 
window which does not use the function keys, the panel is updated
to clear the labels.
.PP 
.B vkbd
also provides a mechanism to switch between multiple languages
by pressing and holding the LANG key.
The LANG key is labeled PrSc or Print Screen
by default. The LANG key can be remapped by adding the following
to your \fB$HOME/.Xdefaults\fP file:
.PP 
   OpenWindows.KeyboardCommand.Translate: key
.PP
.B vkbd
is usually started from openwin-sys and is not intended to
be used directly.  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-nopopup
This option indicates that Function Keys popup panel is not mapped
at startup time.
.SH FILES
.B $OPENWINHOME/lib/openwin-sys
.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
.BR xview (7)
.I OPENLOOK Graphical User Interface Functional Specification
