scrollbar*scrollbar.height:     200
scrollbar*scrollbar.sliderMax:  200
scrollbar*verify.label:         Verify
scrollbar*verify.mnemonic:      V
scrollbar*menuTitle:            Scrollbar
scrollbar*hereToTopLabel:       Here to Top
scrollbar*topToHereLabel:       Top to Here
scrollbar*previousLabel:        Previous
scrollbar*hereToTopMnemonic:    H
scrollbar*topToHereMnemonic:    T
scrollbar*previousMnemonic:     P
!
scrollbar2*scrollbar.width:              200
scrollbar2*scrollbar.sliderMax:          200
scrollbar2*scrollbar.orientation:        horizontal
scrollbar2*scrollbar.proportionLength:   20
scrollbar2*scrollbar.granularity:        10
scrollbar2*verify.label:                 Verify
scrollbar2*verify.mnemonic:              V
scrollbar2*menuTitle:                    Scrollbar
scrollbar2*hereToLeftLabel:              Here to Left
scrollbar2*leftToHereLabel:              Left to Here
scrollbar2*previousLabel:                Previous
scrollbar2*hereToLeftMnemonic:           H
scrollbar2*leftToHereMnemonic:           L
scrollbar2*previousMnemonic:             P
