.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH olmh 6 "24 March 1994"
.IX "olmh" "" "\f3olmh\f1(6) \(em OPEN LOOK interface for MH system" "" PAGE START
.IX "mail" "OPEN LOOK" "mail" "OPEN LOOK interface for MH \(em \f3olmh\f1(6)" PAGE START
.SH NAME
olmh \- OpenLook interface to the MH message handling system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B olmh
[
.BI -path " mailpath
] [
.BI -initial " foldername
] [
.B -flag
] [
.I -toolkitoption...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B olmh
program provides a window-oriented user interface to the Rand \fIMH\fP Message
Handling System.  To actually do things with your mail, it makes calls to the
\fIMH\fP package.  Electronic mail messages may be composed, sent, 
received, replied to, forwarded, sorted, and stored in folders. 
.sp
To specify an alternate collection of mail folders in which to process
mail, use \f3-path\f1 followed by the pathname of the alternate mail directory.
The default mail path is the value of the Path component in 
$HOME/.mh_profile, or $HOME/Mail if the \fIMH\fP Path is not given.  
To specify an alternate folder which may receive new mail and is initially 
opened by \f3olmh\f1, use the \f3-initial\f1 flag.  
The default initial folder is `inbox'.  
The option \f3-flag\f1 will cause \f3olmh\f1 to attempt to
change the appearance of its icon when new mail has arrived.  
These three options have corresponding application-specific resources, 
named \f3MailPath\f1, \f3InitialFolder\f1, and \f3MailWaitingFlag\f1, which
can be used in a resource file.  
The standard toolkit command line options are given in
.BR X11 (7).
.PP
Please don't be misled by the size of this document.  It introduces 
many aspects of the OLIT Widget Set, and provides extensive mechanism
for customization of the user interface.  \f3olmh\f1 really is easy to use.
.SH INSTALLATION
The current version of \f3olmh\f1 requires that the user is already set up
to use \fIMH\f1, version 6.  To do so, see if there is a file
called .mh_profile in your home directory.  If it exists, check to see if it
contains a line that starts with ``Current-Folder''.  If it does, 
you've been using version 4 or earlier of \fIMH\f1; to convert to version
6, you must remove that line.  (Failure to do so causes spurious output to
stderr, which can hang \f3olmh\f1 depending on your setup.)
.sp
If you do not already have a .mh_profile, you can create one (and
everything else you need) by typing ``inc'' to the shell.  You should
do this before using \f3olmh\f1 to incorporate new mail.
.sp
For more information, refer to the 
.BR mh (1)
documentation.
.sp
.SH BASIC SCREEN LAYOUT
\f3olmh\f1 starts out with a single window, divided into four main areas:
.sp
.TP 4
.B \-
Five buttons with pull-down command menus.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A collection of buttons, one for each top level folder. 
New users of mh will have two folders, ``drafts'' and ``inbox''.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A listing, or Table of Contents, of the messages in the open folder.
Initially, this will show the messages in ``inbox''.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A view of one of your messages.  Initially this is blank.
.sp
.SH OLMH AND THE OLIT WIDGET SET
\f3olmh\f1 uses the X Toolkit Intrinsics and the OLIT Widget Set.
Many of the features described below (scrollbars, buttonboxes, etc.) are
actually part of the OLIT Widget Set, and are described here only for
completeness.  For more information, see the OLIT Widget Set documentation.
.sp
.SH PROCESSING YOUR MAIL
This section will define the concepts of the selected folder, current folder,
selected message(s), current message, selected sequence, and current 
sequence.  Each \f3olmh\f1 command is introduced.  
.sp
.SS SELECTED FOLDER
A folder contains a collection of mail messages, or is empty.
.sp
The selected folder is whichever foldername appears in the bar above the 
folder buttons.  Note that this is not necessarily the same folder that is
being viewed.  
To change the selected folder, just press SELECT on the desired folder button
and then SELECT 'Open Folder' from the main 'Folder' menu;
if the folder has subfolders, SELECT a folder from the pull down menu.
You can traverse to any depth of sub-folders using the pull-right menu
buttons.
.sp
The Table of Contents, or toc, lists the messages in the viewed folder.
The title bar above the Table of Contents displays the name of the 
viewed folder.
.sp
The toc title bar also displays the name of the viewed sequence of messages 
within the viewed folder.
Every folder has an ``all'' sequence, which contains all the messages
in the folder, and initially the toc title bar will show ``inbox:all''.
.sp
.SS FOLDER COMMANDS
The \fIfolder\f1 command menu contains commands of a global nature:
.sp
.TP 8
.B Open Folder
Display the data in the selected folder.  Thus, the selected folder also
becomes the viewed folder.  
.TP 8
.B Open Folder in New Window
Displays the selected folder in an additional main window.
Note, however, that you may not reliably display the same folder in more 
than one window at a time, although \f3olmh\f1 will not prevent you from trying.
.TP 8
.B Create Folder
Create a new folder.
You will be prompted for a name for the new folder;
to enter the name, move the pointer to the blank box provided and type.
Subfolders are created by specifying the parent folder, a slash, and the
subfolder name.  For example, 
to create a folder named ``olmh'' which is a subfolder of an existing folder
named ``clients'', type ``clients/olmh''.
Click on the Apply button when finished;
click on Cancel to cancel this operation. 
.PP
.TP 8
.B Delete Folder
Destroy the selected folder.  You will be asked to confirm this action (see
CONFIRMATION WINDOWS).  Destroying a folder will also destroy any subfolders
of that folder.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Close Window
Exits \f3olmh\f1, after first confirming that you won't lose any changes;
or, if selected from any additional \f3olmh\fP window, simply closes that
window.
.sp
.SS HIGHLIGHTED MESSAGES, SELECTED MESSAGES, CURRENT MESSAGE
It is possible to highlight a message in the area of the Table of Contents.
To highlight a message, click on it with pointer button 1.
.sp
The selected message is the same as the highlighted message, if any.  If no
message is highlighted, then the selected message is considered the same
as the current message.
.sp
The current message is indicated by a '+' next to the message number.  It
usually corresponds to the message currently being viewed. 
When a message is viewed, the title bar above the view will identify the message.
.sp
.SS TABLE OF CONTENTS COMMANDS
The \fITable of Contents\fP command menu
contains commands which operate on the open, or viewed folder.
.sp
.TP 18
.B Incorporate New Mail
Add any new mail received to your inbox folder, and set the current
message to be the first new message.  (This command is selectable only if
``inbox'' is the folder being viewed.)
.TP 18
.B Commit Changes
Execute all deletions, moves, and copies that have been marked in this
folder.
.TP 18
.B Pack Folder
Renumber the messages in this folder so they start with 1 and increment by
1.
.TP 18
.B Sort Folder
Sort the messages in this folder in chronological order.  As a side
effect, this also packs the folder.
.TP 18
.B Rescan Folder
Rebuild the list of messages.  This can be used whenever you suspect 
that \f3olmh\f1's
idea of what messages you have is wrong.  (In particular, this is necessary
if you change things using straight \fIMH\f1 commands without using 
\f3olmh\f1.)
.TP 18
.B Read in Reverse
Read in Reverse will switch the meaning of the next and previous 
messages, and will increment in the opposite direction.  This is useful
if you want to read your messages in the order of most recent first.
The option acts as a toggle; select it from the menu a second time to
undo the effect.
.sp
.SS MESSAGE COMMANDS
The \fIMessage\f1 command menu contains commands which operate on the selected
message(s), or if there are no selected messages, the current message.
.sp
.TP 18
.B Compose Message
Composes a new message.  A new window will be brought up for composition;
a description of it is given in the COMPOSITION WINDOWS section below.
This command does not affect the current message.
.PP
.TP 18
.B View Next Message
View the first selected message.  If no messages are highlighted, view the
current message.  If current message is already being viewed, view the
first unmarked message after the current message.
.PP
.TP 18
.B View Previous
View the last selected message.  If no messages are highlighted, view the
current message.  If current message is already being viewed, view the
first unmarked message before the current message.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Mark Deleted
Mark the selected messages for deletion.  If no messages are highlighted, then
this will mark the current message for deletion and automatically display the 
next unmarked message.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Mark Move
Mark the selected messages to be moved into the current (selected) folder.
(If the current folder is the same as the viewed folder, 
this command will just beep.)  If no messages are highlighted,
this will mark the current message to be moved and display the next 
unmarked message.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Mark Copy
Mark the selected messages to be copied into the current folder.  (If the
current folder is the same as the viewed folder, this command will just
beep.)  If no messages are highlighted, mark the current message to be
copied.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Unmark
Remove any of the above three marks from the selected messages, or the
current message, if none are highlighted.
.PP
.TP 18
.B View in New Window
Create a new window containing only a view of the first selected message,
or the current message, if none are highlighted.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Reply
Create a composition window in reply to the first selected message, or the
current message, if none are highlighted.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Forward
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be the contents
of the selected messages, or the current message if none are highlighted.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Use as Composition
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be the contents
of the first selected message, or the current message if none are selected.
Any changes you make in the composition will be saved in a new 
message in the ``drafts'' folder, and will not change the original message.
However, this command was designed to be used within the ``drafts'' folder 
to compose message drafts, and there is an exception to this rule.
If the message to be used as composition was selected from 
the ``drafts'' folder, the changes will be reflected in the original message
(see COMPOSITION WINDOWS).
.PP
.TP 18
.B Print
Print the selected messages, or the current message if none are selected.
\f3olmh\f1 normally prints by invoking
the
.BR enscript (1)
command, but this can be customized with the 
application-specific resource \f3PrintCommand\f1.
.sp
.SS SEQUENCE COMMANDS
The \fISequence\f1 command menu of xmh allows the user to view chosen
sequences of messages. Unfortunately this useful feature is not available
in this demonstration version of Olmh.
.sp
.SS VIEW COMMANDS
Commands in the View menu and in the buttonboxes of 
view windows (which result from the Message command ``View In New'')
correspond in functionality to commands of the same
name in the Message menu, but they operate on the viewed message 
rather than the selected messages or current message.
.sp
.TP 18
.B Close Window
When the viewed message is in a separate view window, this command will
close the view, after confirming the status of any unsaved edits.
.TP 18
.B Reply
Create a composition window in reply to the viewed message.
.TP 18
.B Forward
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be the contents of
the viewed message.
.TP 18
.B Use As Composition
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be the contents of
the viewed message.  Any changes made in the composition window will be
saved in a new message in the ``drafts'' folder, and will not change the
original message.  An exception: if the viewed message was selected from
the ``drafts'' folder, the original message is edited.
.TP 18
.B Edit Message
This command enables the direct editing of the viewed message.
.TP 18
.B Save Message
This command is insensitive until the message has been edited; when
activated, edits will be saved to the original message in the view.
.TP 18
.B Print
Print the viewed message.  \f3olmh\f1 prints by invoking
the
.BR enscript (1)
command, but this can be customized with the 
application-specific resource \f3PrintCommand\f1.
.sp
.SH COMPOSITION WINDOWS
Aside from the normal text editing functions, there are six command
buttons associated with composition windows:
.TP 18
.B Close Window
Close this composition window.  If changes have been made since the
most recent Save or Send, you will be asked to confirm losing them.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Send
Send this composition.
.PP
.TP 18
.B New Headers
Replace the current composition with an empty message.  If changes have
been made since the most recent Send or Save, you will be
asked to confirm losing them. 
.PP
.TP 18
.B Compose Message
Bring up another new composition window.
.PP
.TP 18
.B Save Message
Save this composition in your drafts folder.  Then you can safely close the
composition.  At some future date, you can continue working on the
composition by opening the drafts folder, selecting the message, and
using the ``Use as Composition'' command.  
.PP
.TP 18
.B Insert
Insert a related message into the composition.  If the composition window
was created with a ``Reply'' command, the related message is the message
being replied to, otherwise no related message is defined and this button
is insensitive.  The message may be filtered before being inserted;
see \f3ReplyInsertFilter\fP under APPLICATION RESOURCES for more information.
.sp
.SH ACCELERATORS
Accelerators are shortcuts.  They allow you to invoke commands
without using the menus, directly from the keyboard.
.PP
\f3olmh\fP defines the following keyboard accelerators over the surface of
the main window, except in the view area while editing a message:
.nf
	Meta-I		Incorporate New Mail
	Meta-C		Commit Changes
	Meta-R		Rescan Folder
	Meta-P		Pack Folder
	Meta-S		Sort Folder
.sp
	Meta-space	View Next Message
	Meta-c		Mark Copy
	Meta-d		Mark Deleted
	Meta-f		Forward the selected or current message
	Meta-m		Mark Move
	Meta-n		View Next Message
	Meta-p		View Previous Message
	Meta-r		Reply to the selected or current message
	Meta-u		Unmark
.fi
.PP
In addition to these keyboard accelerators, you can use all the standard
OLIT mouseless commands to traverse and activate objects. For example,
to scroll a TextEdit widget inside a ScrollingList:
.nf
	Alt-Down	Scroll down a line
	Alt-Up		Scroll up a line
	Alt-PgDn	Scroll down a page
	Alt-PgUp	Scroll up a page
	Alt-Ctrl-End	Scroll to bottom
	Alt-Ctrl-Home	Scroll to top
.fi
.sp
.SH TEXT EDITING COMMANDS
All of the text editing commands are actually defined by the TextEdit widget
in the OLIT Widget Set.
The commands may be bound to different keys than the defaults through the
OLIT key re-binding mechanisms.
See the OLIT Widget Set documentation for more details.
.sp
.SH CONFIRMATION DIALOG BOXES
Whenever you press a button that may cause you to lose some work or is
otherwise dangerous, a popup dialog box will appear asking you to confirm the
action.  This window will contain an ``Abort'' or ``No'' button and a
``Confirm'' or ``Apply''
button.  Pressing the ``No'' button cancels the operation, and pressing
the ``Apply'' will proceed with the operation. 
.sp
.SH WIDGET HIERARCHY
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of 
widgets which compose \f3olmh\f1.  In the notation below, indentation
indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name is given first,
followed by the widget instance name.
The application class name is Olmh.
.PP
The hierarchy of the main toc and view window is identical for additional
toc and view windows, except that a TopLevelShell widget is inserted
in the hierarchy between the application shell and the RubberTile widget.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i 3.5i 4.0i 4.5i 5.0i 5.5i 6.0i 6.5i 7.0i
Olmh olmh
	RubberTile olmh
		Control  menuBox
			MenuButton  folderButton
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  open
							OblongButton  openInNew
							OblongButton  create
							OblongButton  delete
							OblongButton  close
			MenuButton  tocButton
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  inc
							OblongButton  commit
							OblongButton  pack
							OblongButton  sort
							OblongButton  rescan
							OblongButton  reverse
			MenuButton  messageButton
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  compose
							OblongButton  next
							OblongButton  prev
							OblongButton  delete
							OblongButton  move
							OblongButton  copy
							OblongButton  unmark
							OblongButton  viewNew
							OblongButton  reply
							OblongButton  forward
							OblongButton  useAsComp
							OblongButton  print
			MenuButton  sequenceButton
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  pick
							OblongButton  openSeq
							OblongButton  addToSeq
							OblongButton  removeFromSeq
							OblongButton  deleteSeq
							OblongButton  all
			MenuButton  viewButton
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  reply
							OblongButton  forward
							OblongButton  useAsComp
							OblongButton  edit
							OblongButton  save
							OblongButton  print
		StaticText folderTitlebar
		Control  folders
			OblongButton  inbox
			OblongButton  drafts
			OblongButton  a_folder
			MenuButton  sub_folder
				MenuShell  menu
					Form  menu_form
						Control  pane
							OblongButton  sub_folder
							OblongButton sub_folder/this
							OblongButton sub_folder/that
							.
							.
							.
.sp
		StaticText  tocTitlebar
		ScrolledWindow  scrwin
			TextEdit  toc
		StaticText  viewTitlebar
		ScrolledWindow  scrwin
			TextEdit  view
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the Create Folder popup dialog box:\f1
.sp
	PopupWindowShell  prompt
		FooterPanel  panel
			Control  control
				Control  upper
					StaticText  label
					TextField  prompt
				Control  lower
					OblongButton  apply
					OblongButton  cancel
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the Notice dialog box, which reports messages from MH:\f1
.sp
	NoticeShell  notice
		Control  pane
			StaticText  textarea
			Control  controlarea
				OblongButton  confirm
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the Confirmation dialog box:\f1
.sp
	NoticeShell  confirm
		Control  pane
			StaticText  textarea
			Control  controlarea
				OblongButton  yes
				OblongButton  no
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the dialog box which reports errors:\f1
.sp
	NoticeShell  error
		Control  pane
			StaticText  textarea
			Control  controlarea
				OblongButton OK
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the composition window:\f1
.sp
	TopLevelShell  olmh
		RubberTile  olmh
			StaticText  composeTitlebar
			ScrolledWindow  scrwin
				TextEdit  comp
			Control  compButtons
				OblongButton  close
				OblongButton  send
				OblongButton  reset
				OblongButton  compose
				OblongButton  save
				OblongButton  insert
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the view window:\f1
.sp
	TopLevelShell  olmh
		RubberTile  olmh
			StaticText  viewTitlebar
			ScrolledWindow  scrwin
				TextEdit  view
			Control  viewButtons
				OblongButton  close
				OblongButton  reply
				OblongButton  forward
				OblongButton  useAsComp
				OblongButton  edit
				OblongButton  save
				OblongButton  print
.sp
\fIThe hierarchy of the pick window:\f1
.sp
	Not implemented in this demo version of Olmh
.sp
.fi				
.SH APPLICATION-SPECIFIC RESOURCES
.sp
Resource instance names begin with a lower case letter but are otherwise
identical to the class name.
.PP
If TocGeometry, ViewGeometry, CompGeometry, or PickGeometry are not
specified, then the value of Geometry is used instead.  If the resulting
height is not specified (e.g., "", "=500", "+0-0"), then the default
height of windows is calculated from fonts and line counts. If
the width is not specified (e.g., "", "=x300", "-0+0), then half of the
display width is used.  If unspecified, the height of a pick window
defaults to half the height of the display.
.sp
Any of these options may also be specified on the command line by
using the X Toolkit Intrinsics resource specification mechanism.
Thus, to run \f3olmh\f1 showing all message headers,
.sp
% olmh -xrm '*HideBoringHeaders:off'
.sp
The following resources are defined:
.TP 8
.B Banner
A short string that is the default label of the folder, Table of Contents,
and view.  The default is "olmh   OpenWindows  V3.0"
.PP
.TP 8
.B BlockEventsOnBusy
Whether to disallow user input and show a busy cursor while \f3olmh\fP is
busy processing a command.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B BusyCursor
The name of the symbol used to represent the position of the pointer,
displayed if \f3BlockEventsOnBusy\f1 is true, when \f3olmh\f1 is
processing a time-consuming command.
The default is "watch".
.PP
.TP 8
.B BusyPointerColor
The foreground color of the busy cursor.  Default is XtDefaultForeground.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CheckFrequency
How often to check for new mail, make checkpoints, and rescan the Table
of Contents, in minutes.  If \f3CheckNewMail\f1 is true, \f3olmh\f1 checks
to see if you have new mail each interval.  If \f3MakeCheckpoints\f1 is
true, checkpoints are made every fifth interval.  Also every fifth 
interval, the Table of Contents is checked for inconsistencies with the
file system, and rescanned.  To prevent all of these checks from occurring,
set \f3CheckFrequency\f1 to 0.  The default is 1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CheckNewMail
If true, \f3olmh\fP will check at regular intervals to see if new mail
has arrived for any of the folders.  A visual indication will be given
if new mail is waiting to be retrieved.  Default is True. (See BUGS).
The interval can be adjusted with the \f3CheckFrequency\f1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CommandButtonCount
The number of command buttons to create in a button box in between the toc
and the view areas of the main window.  \f3olmh\fP will create these buttons
with the names \fIbutton1, button2\fP and so on, in a box with the name
\fIcommandBox\f1.  The user can specify labels and actions for the buttons
in a private resource file; see the section on Actions.  The default is 0.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CompGeometry
Initial geometry for windows containing compositions.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Cursor
The name of the symbol used to represent the pointer.  Default is ``left_ptr''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B DraftsFolder
The folder used for message drafts.  Default is ``drafts''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Geometry
Default geometry to use.  Default is none.
.PP
.TP 8
.B HideBoringHeaders
If ``on'', then \f3olmh\f1 will attempt to skip uninteresting header lines
within messages by scrolling them off.  Default is ``on''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B InitialFolder
Which folder to display on startup.  May also be set with the command-line
option \f3-initial\f1.  Default is ``inbox''.  
.PP
.TP 8
.B InitialIncFile
The file name of your incoming mail drop.  \f3olmh\f1 tries to construct
a filename for the ``inc -file'' command, but in some installations
(e.g. those using the Post Office Protocol) no file is appropriate.
In this case, \f3InitialIncFile\f1 should be specified as the empty string,
and \fIinc\f1 will be invoked without a -file argument.  The default
is to use the value of the environment variable \f3MAIL\f1, or if that
is not set, to append the value of the environment variable \f3USER\f1
to \f3/var/mail/\f1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MailPath
The full path prefix for locating your mail folders.  May also be set
with the command-line option, \f3-path\f1.  The default is the
Path component in $HOME/.mh_profile, or ``$HOME/Mail'' if none.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MailWaitingFlag
If true, \f3olmh\fP will attempt to set an indication in its icon when
new mail is waiting to be retrieved.  If this option is true, then
CheckNewMail is assumed to be true as well.  The \f3-flag\fP command line
option is a quick way to turn MailWaitingFlag on.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MakeCheckpoints
If true, \f3olmh\fP will attempt to save checkpoints of volatile information.
The frequency of checkpointing is controlled by the resource 
\f3CheckFrequency\f1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MhPath
What directory in which to find the \fIMH\f1 commands.  If a command isn't found
here, then the directories in the user's path are searched.  Default is
``/usr/local/mh6''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PickGeometry
Initial geometry for pick windows.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PointerColor
The foreground color of the pointer.  Default is XtDefaultForeground.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PrefixWmAndIconName
Whether to prefix the window and icon name with "olmh: ".  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PrintCommand
What sh command to execute to print a message.  Note that stdout and stderr
must be specifically redirected!  If a message or range of messages is
selected for printing, the full file paths of each message file is
appended to the specified print command.  The default is ``enscript >/dev/null
2>/dev/null''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B ReplyInsertFilter
A shell command to be executed when the \fIInsert\fP button is activated
in a composition window.  The full path and filename of the source
message is added to the end of the command before being passed to
.BR sh (1) .
The default filter is \fIcat\fP; i.e. it inserts the entire message
into the composition.  Interesting filters are:
\fIawk -e '{print "    " $0}'\fP or
\fI<mh directory>/lib/mhl -form mhl.body\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B ReverseReadOrder
When true, the next message will be the message prior to the current message
in the table of contents, and the previous message will be the message
after the current message in the table of contents.  The default is false.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SendBreakWidth
When a message is sent from \f3olmh\fP, lines longer than this value will be
split into multiple lines, each of which is no longer than \f3SendWidth\fP.
This value may be overridden for a single message by inserting an additional
line in the message header of the form \fISendBreakWidth: value\fP.  This
line will be removed from the header before the message is sent.
The default is 85.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SendWidth
When a message is sent from \f3olmh\fP, lines longer than \f3SendBreakWidth\fP
characters will be split into multiple lines, each of which is no longer than
this value.
This value may be overridden for a single message by inserting an additional
line in the message header of the form \fISendWidth: value\fP.  This
line will be removed from the header before the message is sent.
The default is 72.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipCopied
Whether to skip over messages marked for copying when using ``View Next
Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipDeleted
Whether to skip over messages marked for deletion when using ``View Next
Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipMoved
Whether to skip over messages marked for moving to other folders when
using ``View Next Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B StickyMenu
If true, when popup command menus are used, the most recently selected
entry will be under the cursor when the menu pops up.  Default is false.
See the file \fIclients/olmh/Olmh.sample\f1 for an example of how to 
specify resources for pop up command menus.
.PP
.TP 8
.B TempDir
Directory for \f3olmh\f1 to store temporary directories.  For privacy, a user
might want to change this to a private directory.  Default is ``/tmp''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B TocGeometry
Initial geometry for master \f3olmh\f1 windows.
.PP
.TP 8 
.B TocPercentage
In xmh, this represents the percentage of the main window that is used to
display the Table of Contents. However, in olmh this now refers to the
relative proportion of a size CHANGE to the main window that gets applied to
the toc. Consider the toc and the view portions of the main window as having
a weight; The view has a fixed weight of 50 and the toc has a weight of
TocPercentage (default is 33). The total weight is 83 and, by default the
toc will get 33/83 of the size change and the view will get 50/83 of the
size change.
To change the INITIAL number of lines in the toc, set the resource
*toc.linesVisible to some number. NOTE however that you may not get exactly
this number of lines because the RubberTile may resize the toc widget.
.PP
.TP 8
.B TocWidth
How many characters to generate for each message in a folder's table of
contents.  Default is 100.  Use 80 if you plan to use \fImhl\f1 a lot,
because it will be faster, and the extra 20 characters may not be useful.
.PP
.TP 8
.B ViewGeometry
Initial geometry for windows showing only a view of a message.
.sp
.SH CUSTOMIZATION USING \fIMH\f1
The initial text displayed in a composition window is generated by
executing the corresponding \fIMH\fP command; i.e. \fIcomp\fP, \fIrepl\fP,
or \fIforw\fP, and therefore message components may be customized as
specified for those commands.  \fIComp\fP is executed only once per
invocation of \f3olmh\fP and the message template is re-used for each
successive new composition.
.SH FILES
~/Mail
.br
~/.mh_profile - \fIMH\f1 profile
.br
/usr/local/mh6 - \fIMH\f1 commands
.br
~/Mail/<folder>/.olmhcache - scan folder
.br
~/Mail/<folder>/.mh_sequences - sequence definitions
.br
/tmp - temporary files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xrdb (1) ,
X Toolkit Intrinsics, OLIT Widget Set,
.BR mh (1) ,
.BR enscript (1)
.SH BUGS
- Marks disappear after Incorporating new mail, although internally the
messages are still marked.
.br
- Reading mail using 'raw' MH commands or another mailer such as xmh, can
cause olmh to get confused, and the 'current' message in the toc may not
be the actual message displayed.
.br
- Mouseless does not activate buttons in comp or view TopLevel shells.
.br
- Because of the way OLIT uses the translation manager to map all events to
OlAction, the action procs do not work as for xmh and have been removed from
this man page.
.br
- Printing support is minimal.
.br
- Should handle the ``unseen'' message-sequence.
.br
- Should determine by itself if the user hasn't used \fIMH\f1 before, and
offer to create the .mh_profile, instead of hanging on inc.
.br
- Still a few commands missing (rename folder, remail message).
.br
- A bug in \fIMH\f1 limits the the number of characters in .mh_sequences to 
BUFSIZ.
When the limit is reached, the .mh_sequences file often becomes corrupted,
and sequence definitions may be lost.
.br
- Except for the icon, there isn't an indication that you have new mail.
.br
- There should be a resource, ShowOnInc, which when true, would show 
the current message in the view after incorporating new mail.
.br
- The CheckFrequency resource should be split into two separate resources.
.br
- WM_SAVE_YOURSELF protocol is ignored.
.br
- WM_DELETE_WINDOW protocol doesn't work right when requesting deletion
of the first toc and view, while trying to keep other \f3olmh\fP windows around.
.br
- Doesn't support annotations when replying to messages.
.br
- If the MH commands aren't in your PATH, you get ``Execvp Failed'' messages
instead of something useful like ``Can't find program.''
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, 1989, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
.\"See \fIX11(7)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Terry Weissman, Digital Western Research Laboratory
.br
modified by Donna Converse, MIT X Consortium
.br
ported to OLIT as a demo by John S Cooper, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.IX "olmh" "" "\f3olmh\f1(6) \(em OPEN LOOK interface for MH system" "" PAGE END
.IX "mail" "OPEN LOOK" "mail" "OPEN LOOK interface for MH \(em \f3olmh\f1(6)" PAGE END
