.\" @(#)realxfishdb.6 1.0 91/03/06
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 - Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH realxfishdb 6 "06 March 1991"
.IX "demo" "fish" "demo" "fishtank animation demo \(em \f3realxfishdb\f1(6)" ""
.IX "realxfish" "" "\f3realxfishdb\f1(6) \(em animated fishtank display" ""
.SH NAME
realxfishdb, fish_props \- Display a fishtank on the root window of an X11 server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B realxfishdb
[
.B \-fnn
] [
.B \-bn
] [
.B \-rn.n
] [
.B \-in.n
] [
.B \-d
] [
.B \-s
]
.LP
.B fish_props
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B realxfishdb
displays a fishtank on the root window complete with swimming fish and
bubbles, all in living color. This demo runs on Open Windows X11/NeWS
servers v2 and newer. Currently only 8 bit color is supported. The 
.B fish_props
program allows the user to preset various options for
.B realxfishdb.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-fnn
The number of fish. The default is 2. This option is ignored if you have
used the fish properties sheet and a ~/.fishrc file can be found.
.TP
.B \-bn
The number of bubbles. The suggested number is 0 since they take a
significant amount of CPU power. The default is 0.
.TP
.BR \-rn.n
Fractions of a second between refresh updates. On an SS1 with about
8 fish and no hardware multibuffering support, setting this to 0.3 
leaves you enough CPU power to continue to edit or read mail. Default
is 1.0 (which corresponds to 100 on the property sheet). This option
is ignored if you have used the fish properties sheet and a ~/.fishrc
file can be found.
.TP
.BR \-in.n
Maximum fish increment. For those who like smoothly moving fish, set this
value to a low value such as 0.2. The default is 1.0 (which corresponds
to 100 on the property sheet). This option is ignored if you have used
the fish properties sheet and a ~/.fishrc file can be found.
.TP
.BR \-d
Use the X11 Multibuffering Extension in OWv3 and newer Open Windows servers.
This is not recommended unless you have hardware support for multibuffering
since it further drains memory and CPU power. The default is off. This option
is ignored if you have used the fish properties sheet and a ~/.fishrc file
can be found.
.TP
.BR \-s
Secure mode. The default is off. This mode covers all windows on the
screen and runs in a secure mode. Windows can't even be popped up to stop
the program in this mode.
.LP
.B fish_props
is a fish properties sheet which allows the user to select the fish used in
the program, the display mode, the refresh rate, and the maximum fish
increment. After making selections press the apply button to save selections
in the ~/.fishrc file.
.B realxfishdb
attempts to read this file when it starts.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
There are image files in the $OPENWINHOME/share/images/fish directory  
which are required to run
.B realxfishdb. 
.TP 15 
.SB FISHHOME
Indicates an alternate path for
.B fish_props
and
.B realxfishdb
to search for the fish files otherwise if they can't be found in the
$OPENWINHOME directory the final path attempted is the ./fish directory
relative to where the executable lives.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B $HOME/.fishrc
Contains the options set by running
.B fish_props.
.B realxfishdb
attempts to read this file upon startup.
.TP
.B $OPENWINHOME/share/images/fish/*.im8
Image files necessary to run 
.B fish_props
and
.B realxfishdb.
.PD
.SH NOTES
.LP
Be patient when starting this program, it processes a lot of pixels
before starting up. Also, it runs on the root window so don't be alarmed
when windows temporarily disappear.
.LP
If you would like your very own copy you will need the
.B fish_props
and
.B realxfishdb
executables and all the files from the ./fish subdirectory.
.LP
This is an adaptation of an existing X11 application called
xaqua of unknown origin.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Both 
.B fish_props
and
.B realxfishdb
dump core if the ./fish directory does not contain the required image files.

